# The *NewsAsset* Case Study (Quantitative Analysis of Apache Storm Applications) 

## Description

The development of Information Systems today faces the era of Big Data. Large 
volumes of information need to be processed in realtime, for example, for 
Facebook or Twiter analysis. This paper addresses the redesign of NewsAsset, a 
commercial product that helps journalists by providing services, which analyze 
millions of media items from the social network in realtime. Technologies like 
Apache Storm can help enormously in this context. We have quantitatively 
analyzed the new design of NewsAsset to assess whether the introduction of 
Apache Storm can meet the demanding performance requirements of this media 
product. Our assessment approach, guided by the Unified Modeling Language (UML), 
takes advantage, for performance analysis, of the software designs already used 
for development. In addition, we converted UML into a domain-specific modeling 
language (DSML) for Apache Storm, thus creating a profile for Storm. Later, we 
transformed said DSML into an appropriate language for performance evaluation, 
specifically, stochastic Petri nets. The assessment ended with a successful 
software design that certainly met the scalability requirements of NewsAsset. 

NewsAsset is a commercial product positioned in the news and media domain, 
branded by Athens Technology Center (ATC), a SME located in Greece. NewsAsset 
suite constitutes an innovative management solution for handling large volumes 
of information offering a complete and secure electronic environment for 
storage, management and delivery of sensitive information in the news production 
environment. The platform proposes a distributed multi-tier architecture engine 
for managing data storage composed by media items such as text, images, reports, 
articles or videos. 


## References

[1] Requeno, J.I., Merseguer, J., Bernardi, S. et al. Quantitative Analysis 
    of Apache Storm Applications: The NewsAsset Case Study. Inf Syst Front 21, 
    67–85 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/s10796-018-9851-x 

[2] J. Requeno, J. Merseguer and S. Bernardi, Performance Analysis of Apache 
    Storm Applications Using Stochastic Petri Nets. 2017 IEEE International 
    Conference on Information Reuse and Integration (IRI), San Diego, CA, 2017,
    pp. 411-418.  https://doi.org/10.1109/IRI.2017.64